cellular_raza/README.md, before:

<div align="center">
    <picture>
        <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="logos/cellular_raza_dark_mode.svg">
        <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="logos/cellular_raza.svg">
        <img alt="The cellular_raza logo" src="doc/cellular_raza.svg">
    </picture>
</div>

# cellular_raza
[![License: GPL 2.0](https://img.shields.io/github/license/jonaspleyer/cellular_raza?style=flat-square)](https://opensource.org/license/gpl-2-0/)
[![Minimum rustc version](https://img.shields.io/badge/rustc-1.36+-lightgray.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/jonaspleyer/cellular_raza#rust-version-requirements)
[![Crate](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/cellular_raza.svg?style=flat-square)](https://crates.io/crates/cellular_raza)
[![API](https://img.shields.io/docsrs/cellular_raza/latest?style=flat-square)](https://docs.rs/cellular_raza)
[![dependency status](https://deps.rs/crate/cellular_raza/latest/status.svg?style=flat-square)](https://deps.rs/crate/cellular_raza)

Cellular Agent-based Modeling from a Clean Slate

| | stable | beta | nightly |
|---|---|---|---|
| `ubuntu-latest` | ![stable-ubuntu-latest](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/jonaspleyer/cellular_raza/test_stable_ubuntu-latest.yml?style=flat-square&label=CI) |![beta-ubuntu-latest](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/jonaspleyer/cellular_raza/test_beta_ubuntu-latest.yml?style=flat-square&label=CI) |![nightly-ubuntu-latest](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/jonaspleyer/cellular_raza/test_nightly_ubuntu-latest.yml?style=flat-square&label=CI) |
| `macos-13` | ![stable-macos-13](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/jonaspleyer/cellular_raza/test_stable_macos-13.yml?style=flat-square&label=CI) |![beta-macos-13](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/jonaspleyer/cellular_raza/test_beta_macos-13.yml?style=flat-square&label=CI) |![nightly-macos-13](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/jonaspleyer/cellular_raza/test_nightly_macos-13.yml?style=flat-square&label=CI) |
| `windows-latest` | ![stable-windows-latest](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/jonaspleyer/cellular_raza/test_stable_windows-latest.yml?style=flat-square&label=CI) |![beta-windows-latest](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/jonaspleyer/cellular_raza/test_beta_windows-latest.yml?style=flat-square&label=CI) |![nightly-windows-latest](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/jonaspleyer/cellular_raza/test_nightly_windows-latest.yml?style=flat-square&label=CI) |

## Documentation
The documentation at [cellular-raza.com](https://cellular-raza.com/) provides an introduction,
examples, the most recent technical documentation, submission guidelines and much more.
Visit [crates.io/crates/cellular_raza](https://crates.io/crates/cellular_raza) for an overview of
the package.
Visit [docs.rs/cellular_raza](https://docs.rs/cellular_raza) to view documentations for specific
versions as published to crates.io.

## Contributing
Please use [github](https://www.github.com/jonaspleyer/cellular_raza) to write a pull-request.
Also have a look at the
[coding guidelines](https://cellular-raza.com/internals/code-structure/coding-guidelines).

## License
Download the [GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE Version 2.0](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.txt).

Commit message:

add link to getting-started guide in README.md for the crate and workspace

cellular_raza/README.md, after:

<div align="center">
    <picture>
        <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="logos/cellular_raza_dark_mode.svg">
        <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="logos/cellular_raza.svg">
        <img alt="The cellular_raza logo" src="doc/cellular_raza.svg">
    </picture>
</div>

# cellular_raza
[![License: GPL 2.0](https://img.shields.io/github/license/jonaspleyer/cellular_raza?style=flat-square)](https://opensource.org/license/gpl-2-0/)
[![Minimum rustc version](https://img.shields.io/badge/rustc-1.36+-lightgray.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/jonaspleyer/cellular_raza#rust-version-requirements)
[![Crate](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/cellular_raza.svg?style=flat-square)](https://crates.io/crates/cellular_raza)
[![API](https://img.shields.io/docsrs/cellular_raza/latest?style=flat-square)](https://docs.rs/cellular_raza)
[![dependency status](https://deps.rs/crate/cellular_raza/latest/status.svg?style=flat-square)](https://deps.rs/crate/cellular_raza)

Cellular Agent-based Modeling from a Clean Slate

| | stable | beta | nightly |
|---|---|---|---|
| `ubuntu-latest` | ![stable-ubuntu-latest](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/jonaspleyer/cellular_raza/test_stable_ubuntu-latest.yml?style=flat-square&label=CI) |![beta-ubuntu-latest](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/jonaspleyer/cellular_raza/test_beta_ubuntu-latest.yml?style=flat-square&label=CI) |![nightly-ubuntu-latest](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/jonaspleyer/cellular_raza/test_nightly_ubuntu-latest.yml?style=flat-square&label=CI) |
| `macos-13` | ![stable-macos-13](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/jonaspleyer/cellular_raza/test_stable_macos-13.yml?style=flat-square&label=CI) |![beta-macos-13](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/jonaspleyer/cellular_raza/test_beta_macos-13.yml?style=flat-square&label=CI) |![nightly-macos-13](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/jonaspleyer/cellular_raza/test_nightly_macos-13.yml?style=flat-square&label=CI) |
| `windows-latest` | ![stable-windows-latest](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/jonaspleyer/cellular_raza/test_stable_windows-latest.yml?style=flat-square&label=CI) |![beta-windows-latest](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/jonaspleyer/cellular_raza/test_beta_windows-latest.yml?style=flat-square&label=CI) |![nightly-windows-latest](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/jonaspleyer/cellular_raza/test_nightly_windows-latest.yml?style=flat-square&label=CI) |

## Documentation
The documentation at [cellular-raza.com](https://cellular-raza.com/) provides an introduction,
examples, the most recent technical documentation, submission guidelines and much more.

## Getting Started
The "getting-started" guide at
[cellular-raza.com/guides/getting-started](https://cellular-raza.com/guides/getting-started)
is a good entry point to learn how to use `cellular_raza`.

## Contributing
Please use [github](https://www.github.com/jonaspleyer/cellular_raza) to write a pull-request.
Also have a look at the
[coding guidelines](https://cellular-raza.com/internals/code-structure/coding-guidelines).

## License
Download the [GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE Version 2.0](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.txt).
